Scientific documentation for CCPP-SCM v7.0.0 (#1077)
NCAR/ccpp-physics: physics/docs/pdftxt/ccppv7_phy_updates.txt

/**
\page ccppv7_phy Physics Update Summary

This page provides an overview of the major updates in CCPP Physics v7.0.0.

\b General \b Changes:
- New supported suites: GFS_v17_p8_ugwpv1, GFS_v16_RRTMGP, and HRRR_gf suites 
- New \ref CLM_LAKE_page in HRRR_gf suite

> - New \ref GFS_ugwpv1_gsldrag in GFS_v17_p8_ugwpv1 suite combines the \ref GFS_drag_suite with the version 1 UGWP non-stationary gravity wave drag (NGW) scheme of  Yudin et al. (2020)\cite yudin_et_al_2020 

Reviewer: Can you  "GFS" from the website? UGWP v1 is not just for GFS

Author: UGWP v1 is currently only for GFSv17 prototype, but I agree that it is not necessary the case in the future.

/**
\page ccppv7_phy Physics Update Summary

\b General \b Changes:
 Add GFS_v17, GFS_v16_RRTMGP, and RRFS_v1 suites as new supported suite

> - New the Community Lake Model \ref CLM_LAKE_model in RRFS_v1 suite

Reviewer: I suggest grouping the parameterizations of a certain kind (radiation, microphysics) together

> - New \ref GFS_ugwpv1_gsldrag in GFS_v17 suite combines the \ref GFS_drag_suite with the version 1 UGWP non-stationary gravity wave drag (NGW) scheme of  Yudin et al. (2020)\cite yudin_et_al_2020 

Author: With HR3 GWP updates, UGWPV1 = ugwpv1 (NGW)+drag_suite_psl; drag suite in HRRR_gf is drag_suite_run

> - New \ref GFS_ugwpv1_gsldrag in GFS_v17 suite combines the \ref GFS_drag_suite with the version 1 UGWP non-stationary gravity wave drag (NGW) scheme of  Yudin et al. (2020)\cite yudin_et_al_2020 

Author: We have decided to call it GFS Orographic Drag scheme through email communication. The word follows "\ref"  is not  shown in website. See [here](https://dtcenter.ucar.edu/GMTB/v7.0.0p/sci_doc/ccppv7_phy.html) what is called in website

> - New \ref GFS_RRTMGP_page in GFS_v16_RRTMGP suite

Reviewer: I still see smoke and dust in the website. This should not be advertised as part of the supported release since it does not work with SCM.

- Introduction of 3D effects of cold-pool dynamics and stochastic initiation using self-organizing \ref cellular_automata (Bengtsson et al. 2021 \cite bengtsson_et_al_2021)
- Introduction of environmental wind shear effect and subgrid TKE dependence in convection, to seek improvements in hurricane forecast prediction (Han et al. 2024 \cite Han_2024)
- Stricter convective initiation criteria to allow for more CAPE to build up to address a low CAPE bias in GFSv16 (Han et al. 2021 \cite han_2021)
- Reduction of convective rain evaporation rate to address a systematic cold bias near the surface in GFSv16 (Han et al. 2021 \cite han_2021)

\b GFS \b Scale-aware \b TKE-EDMF \b PBL \b Scheme:
- To reduce the negative hurricane intensity biases, a parameterization for environmental wind shear effect
is included in the GFS TKE-EDMF PBL and cumulus schemes. In addition, the entrainment rates are enhanced
proportional to the sub-cloud or PBL mean TKE (turbulent kinetic energy) when TKE is larger than a threshold
value.
- To enhance the underestimated CAPE forecasts in the GFS, the entrainment rate in the TKE-EDMF PBL scheme is

> increased as a function of vegetation fraction and surface roughness length.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Increased entrainment rate as a function of vegetation fraction and surface roughness length to enhance the underestimated CAPE forecasts in the GFS
```

> \sa Han et al.(2024) \cite Han_2024

Reviewer: Indent

- Stochastic physics perturbations (SPP) introduced for emissivity, albedo and vegetation fraction
- Coefficient in soil resistance formulation (Sakaguchi and Zeng, 2009 \cite sakaguchi_and_zeng_2009) raised from 0.7 to 1.0 to increase soil resistance to evaporation
- Computation of snow cover fraction and snow thermal conductivity updated

\b MYNN-EDMF \b PBL \b Scheme:
- Small increase of buoyancy length scale in convective environment
- Patch for ensuring non-zero cloud fractions for all grid cells where cloud mixing ratio is greater than 1e-6 or ice mixing ratio is greater than 1e-9

\b Subgrid-scale (\b SGS) \b Clouds \b Scheme:
- Bug fix for cloud condensate input into RRTMG radiation
- New code section for use with SAS cumulus scheme
- Cloud fraction now computed as a mix between the area-dependent form and the modified Chaboureau and Bechtold (2005) \cite Chaboureau_2005 form
- Adjusted limit for the boundary flux functions

\b MYNN \b Surface-layer \b Scheme
- Reintroduce friction velocity averaging over water to reduce noise in 10-m winds in the hurricane regime

\b Grell-Freitas \b Scale \b and \b Aerosol \b Aware \b Convection \b Scheme:

> - Update for aerosol-awareness (experimental)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Update for aerosol-awareness (experimental and not supported)
```

- Scale-awareness turned off when explicit microphysics is not active anywhere in the column
- Convection is completely suppressed at grid points where the MYNN PBL sheme produces shallow convection
- Radar reflectivity considers mass flux PDF as well as whether scale-awareness is turned on at the gird point in equation

\b Unified \b Gravity \b Wave \b Physics \b Scheme:
\todo UGWP updates for HR4 

\b NSSL \b Cloud \b Microphysics \b Scheme:

> - Update NSSL microphysics with 3-moment option

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Updated with 3-moment option
```

\b Radiation
- Coupling of GOCART aerosols with radiation (iaer=2011)

> - Add the convective cloud water (liquid water + ice water) in the calculations of cloud water path and ice water path for radiation cloud properties

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Convective cloud water (liquid water + ice water) added to the calculations of cloud water path and ice water path for radiation cloud properties
```

- Implementation of a positive definition mass-flux scheme and a method for removing the negative tracers (Han et al. 2022 \cite Han_et_al_2022)
- Introduction of a new closure based on a prognostic evolution of the convective updraft area fraction in both shallow and deep convection (Bengtsson et al. 2022 \cite Bengtsson_2022)

> - Introduction of 3D effects of cold-pool dynamics and stochastic initiation using self-organizing cellular automata stochastic convective organization scheme (not supported; Bengtsson et al. 2021 \cite bengtsson_et_al_2021)

Reviewer 2: I just wonder what you mean by "not supported" here? The CA scheme entered the GFSv17 prototypes in the prototype 8. If you mean not supported by the single column model maybe you could specify that here?

Reviewer: Yes, not supported in SCM.  I like your suggestion of mentioning that explicitly.
